Dev8 is a local developer community based in Eastern Visayas consisting of developers, students, and tech enthusiasts. We seek to advance the local tech scene and improve the state of CS and IT in the region.

We initially started around 2016 as a bunch of students in UP Tacloban. We even conducted a small event in the college. But, things just didn't align yet at that time. We laid low for a while, and Dev8 became inactive. Two years later, a new spark reignited everything. Our co-founder, Raven Rama, helped kickstart everything again (though we were briefly known as Devs of Tac). Slowly, we gained momentum and now, we're making a dent, even if it's just small, on the tech scene of Eastern Visayas.

We hosted our first homegrown conference, "Dev8 Tech Talks", last February 18, 2023 in Tacloban City, where we featured a number of local speakers and two students with notable projects. This was not our first rodeo though when it comes to organizing big events. We also hosted "Google I/O Extended Leyte 2019" in Palo, Leyte a couple of years back on August 17, 2019. We're definitely planning on bringing tech conferences back to Eastern Visayas, but we're not sharing any related information yet. Just keep out for any of our announcements.

To compliment our tech conferences and help keep an atmosphere of a growing tech scene, we conduct monthly casual meetups with fellow developers called Dev8 Syncs. They're our chance to talk about a lot of different topics and relax with like-minded people. We conduct these once a month in various locations.  Most of our Syncs are conducted in Tacloban, but we also have conducted Syncs in Calbayog, Catbalogan, Baybay, and Borongan. We would really love to bring Syncs again to those places and in another key locations too!

Aside from tech conferences and meetups, we have a few programmes that fill in some niches in the region. Our most prominent is our Discord server, which provides an avenue for developers to connect with one another and have amazing discussions. We also have a podcast, Dev8 Radio, which uploads monthly episodes on Spotify where we discuss different topics and even the latest issues and news in tech. Lastly, we have the annual Dev8 Eastern Visayas Tech Scene Survey that we conduct to get to know the state of the tech scene in the region. We provide the results publicly so that anyone can benefit from the data we obtain.

Improving the tech scene of our beloved region is a tough endeavour filled with stress, quick maths, and planning. But, through what we have done so far, we hope we have at least inspired our developers positively. We're not done yet though! We have plans for event and programmes for the region, including those outside of Tacloban. Let's hope we get to manifest them into reality. If you want to help us make any of our plans happen, we're open to discussions. Together, let's make the tech scene better for Eastern Visayas.